Create a new board: 

Search > Board > create board (right top)

From a project, left menu, go to down > create board. 
Select scrum or kanban. 
If we have already a saved filter available for other board, select "board from and existing saved filter".
Or select " Board from an existing project"
A board can be added to more than one project. 

From the backlog, 
Add the issues on which you want to work.
Start the sprint. 
Select duration of sprint and start date.
Normally no more issues added to a sprint once it is started. 
Though we can add issues, which will show a warning message. 
Once the sprint complete it is not necessary to complete all the issues. 
While closing the sprint we can select "move the incomplete issues to new sprint" or move to backlog. 

After completint the sprint, click retrospective time. 
What went well.  
What went not well
How can we improve. 

Editing the SCRUM board settings. 
From the board, go to  settings (...), select board settings.
We can modify the saved filters.

To add the issues from another project to this board:
Select filter> click the curren project name with drop down > select the second project.
Then we can add issue from the second project to the sprint which is in the first project..

To add more coloum to the board, like In progress,peer review etc.
From the board settings > coloumn > add coloumn 

Swimlanes is the setting to break up issues on the board based on another parameter, like based on EPIC, Story, assignee etc.

Estimation is good in calculate/analyse the time. 

Working day  settings is to select the actual working days.This will heelp to high light off shift days.

Kanban board is an ongoing process; there is no sprint.  
While creating a Kanban board with saved filters used for SCRUM board, all the issues in the SCRUM board will be visible in the new Kanban board. 
While you are on the board, go to board settings and coloumn > Add coloumn to add more coloumn to the work flow. 
If you change the status of an issue from one board,  it will reflect on all the boards wherever the issues is  visible. 

Creating a new release is helpful to move the issues with DONE status under that release and clean the board. 
These issues can be visible under Releases > Release Name. 
For each release there is a start date and release date. After the release date, the issues with DONE  status move to that release. 

Editing Kanaban Board:
To search JQL: example, issues from project CoreIT will list ascending order.  
project = "Core IT" ORDER BY assignee ASC
Assigned to an assignee. 
project = "Core IT" AND assignee = 5c49a612c694663913aa1156

Creating Dashboard:
Go to JIRA Home > Dashboard > TopRight - settings > Create dashboard. 
Give name,description and select share - and add to whom you want to share. Don't forgot to click "Add" button  and then save. 
Once created the dashboard, add gadget.

Creating filter or saved search:
 Search >  Advanced search > search for some filed to filter > after the search save the search with a name. 
 While sharing a dashboard with the saved filter, other members cannot see the results because the saved filter is not shared. 
 So ensure both dashboard and savd filter are having proper share permissions.

Creating Multiple issues in bulk.
Create > Issue > Select Import issues > Select the CSV file> next> Import to project > next >Map the fields in csv with the JIRA fields > Import

CSV file Format format for bulk issue creation.
issue Type : Summary: Duplicate : Sorting field

Editing issues in bulk: 
Search > Advanced search > select the criteria and then on the top right settings > Bulk changes all (5) issues.

Reports : 
Go to board > Select Reports > There are different type of reports available. Select the format and criteria.

To download the issues in  csv, use any saved search or new search and use "export" which is on the top right side. We can customize the coloumns required. 

















