Scrum uses sprints, kanban doesnot have. 

Sprint is a pre-determined amoutn of time where teams detyermine the work to get done. 

If the team decided a two week sprint, every two weeks team holds a Sprint meeting. (This is not the daily stand up)
During the sprint meeting , team discuss about below things. 
What went well ? 
What didn't go well? 
What can we do better next sprint?
Discuss and agree on work to be completed in the next sprint.

Stand up meeting is where each team member  explains what was accomplished yesterday and the wwork intend to do today.
And any road blocks or issues that arose are discussed.

To Do / In Progress/ Done => These are the three state of a project. 

Story : As a <user>  I want <some goals> so that <some reason >.
        As a webdeveloper I want to able to add users to Jira so that my co workesrs can add bug.
        
Normally a story is for two weeks.
Stories in Jira is user stories. And Epic in jira is multiple user stories.


An EPIC is a big project that is too big for a single sprint. It is broken in to multiple user stories.
When all the user stories are completed then the epic is completed.

Issues hold the filed that contain your data. Stories,epics and bugs are types of issues.[ you can create yuour own custom issue type too]

Projects are containers for issues. It organize things about your issues.  
=> Inside a project we create different type of issues.Not necessary to have all types of issues to be there in the projects.
=> Example: Sales team not require bug issue. 

In the classic method, all entities have global scope. 
Must be Jira admin to create the project.
Compliated to mset up and maintain.


Next gen projects are the projects where the isse types are project scope entities. 
No special permission needed to  create next-gen projects.
Easy to set up and maintain.

Different JIRA versions
Jira core:
Team project collaberation 
Business focussed project management
task management

Jira Software: 
Jira core + agile functionality
Kanban and scrum management
SW development integration and tools ( bitbucket)

Jira Service Desk:
Jira core + help desk functionality 
IT support and helpdesk ticketing 
Troubleshooting management

Using Jira software in jira cloud have benefits likes lower cost, automatic update and atlassian support included. 

But if you are buying Jira server , it is one time payment, install on your own server , extreme customization possible. 
==========
Once you are in Jira - create an issue - short cut is  just press 'c'.
To popup the left most menu, use / or \. 
If you see the notification page, there are two tabs - Direct and watching. [ Notification from the issues for you mentioned watch comes under - watching]
Below the notification symbol, there is a menu button- which will open a menu for other Jira products for you have access. 
Last symbol is to access your profile and settings. 

The first coloumn of menu is fixed and  very less width. 
Second column of menu  can be hide and expand using the key "["  . (Moving your mouse pointer will temperorily expand it if it is hidden ). If you click an item inside it, this menu and its right pane will change. 

Project : 
Search Project - and Selcet create project
Mark as favourite: NAME: ID: TYPE: LEAD: Category:
Project name can be duplicate.  
But the project key should be unique.  (Jira admin access need to modify ). This will be 
Projecy type is typically says what type of project. (Jira admin access need to modify )
Project lead - All the unassigned issues assigned to project lead,and he is responsible for assigning them to proper team member. 
(Though this can be changed from project settings - )
Project category can be used to mark the project for which  team/client etc.

When you are inside the project,  left side pane shows Board (which is teh agile board)

How to create releases inside a project????????


Using advanced search,we can use JQL

Ex : issuetype  = Story AND project = ISS AND status = "In Progress"
This search we can save. 

We can switch from JQL search to basic. In basic also there are a number of critiria  to add  for a search.

For an issue, selcting and updating work log will help to track the time to complete that issue. 

Activity details will show history/comments/worklog etc. 

Watch option allow to notify the reporter when something changes in the issue. 

If Jira is connected with github/bitbucket  etc, a branch can be created from JIRA for that issu.

Right side of the issue name, button to copy the link for that issue.

Filters - are  saved search. Using advances search,we can save the search for future use. 

Click on the search, check the bottom side, there you can select issues/board/project/filte/people etc.

==
Sprint: 
On a sprint board, top side it will show Sprint name. 
Near the search filed, it will show  users who have issue on this borad. Right side of that there is a quick filter as well.
On the riht hand side top, it will show how many days remaining for that sprint. If you want to complete the spring, there is another button available.

To crate a new sprint: go to backogs, there in the right side it shows "create sprint".
Give sprint name and sprint goal. Drag the issues to the new sprint. Then click "start the sprint"
From right side, we can select board settings and see the coloumn detail. 

KANBAN Board: 
From the kanban board, right side top settings select the "open issue in sidebar" or "dialog" to change the way how the issue is opening. 
check board settings for more details. 

Next-gen projects: 
Select "Next-gen" while creating a new project.(To create a new Next-gen project  no admin access require)
Because the entities like issues, only available for that project and not globally.

We can create a new EPIC by clicking + button or pressing "c"  - similar creating issue. 
Select issue type as EPIC.
We can add  issues to this EPIC. By clicking + symbol inside the EPIC.  
Or we can add an elready existing issues to the EPIC by drag and drop. Or click the 3dots (...) on the top right of the issue. 
There is a status bar for the EPIC which will show % completion of the EPIC.  
We can remove an issue from EPIC as well.  

Inside  the Next-gen procject, go to road map, then create EPIC. This will reflect the start date and due date added for that EPIC. 
It also show the start date and due date for other EPIC also in the project. 





