Once the user who created issues no more with the company, then do not delete the user instead revoke the access.

If you have the JiraAdmin access,  from the atlassian menu, go to "site administration" 


Go to site seettings:
Site access, select who can join the atlassian jira site. Options are:
Only invited users, 
Anyone with following emiail address domain.
Anyone.

For invitation there is a settings, 
Users can invite others.

Access requests under user management show the pending access requests and admin can approve or reject these requests.

From the user management tab admin can invite user using the email id.(For JIRA/confluence/ etc.)
From here itself we can assign group for that user.
Groups can be created from the "groups" tab. 


Product access tab shows the License usage. 
From "view configuration" tab,  we can see the current settings and we can change the parameters.
For example Next-gen projects can be created "by any user"  can be change to only for  "manager" group. 

Creating classic project: require admin access.
Go to project> Create project> Name & Key > Template > scrum / kanban /bug tracking etc>

From the project, click "Project settings"  for modifying the project settings.
We can add people to this project. Use "people" tab.

Deleting the project is permenant, no one can restore that after deleting. 
Each issue type can be configured differently - from the "issue types" tab.
"Issue lay out" can be used to controll the appearance of the issue. 
"Screen " settings also used to control  the appearnce. We can select which felds neeed to display on the issue. 

"Work flow " defines what are the status your issues can select.
"version "  - tab can be used for  version/release 
"Components"  - are similar to versioning.
"Permission"  - Like who can manage sprints, Administer projects, browse projects, delete issues.
              Issue Security can be used to set who can view the issues. 
"Notification"  -  Control notifications .  Issue created/modified/Assigned/Resolved etc. 
"Issue collectors" - Kind of feed back mechanism.
"Development tools" - Using this we can  connect the development tool like 'bitbucket' to this project. 
-----------------
Jira Settings can be used to apply a global settings and not specfic to a project.
Systen settings> General settings.
Example: How dashboard look like. 
Permission helper and notification helper - mostly used in this part. 

Application access - can control access to differnt applications. 

jira sw configuration > from here we can set parallel sprint on a single scrum board. 

Project administration is also there in Jira settings. 

Issues settings under jira settings, normally use this settings - adjust work flows. Issue features etc. 
Apps - To buy new add on etc.
User management -  For managing billing and licensing 
-------------------












 